docs/source/tox.rst, before:

.. _oa-ghaw-tox:

Test a Python package using tox
-------------------------------

This workflow makes it easy to map tox environments to GitHub Actions
jobs. To use this template, your repository will need to have a
``tox.ini`` file.

.. code:: yaml

   jobs:
     test:
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         posargs: '-n 4'
         envs: |
           - linux: pep8
             pytest: false
           - macos: py310
           - windows: py39-docs
             libraries:
               choco:
                 - graphviz
         coverage: 'codecov'
       secrets:
         CODECOV_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.CODECOV_TOKEN }}

Inputs
~~~~~~

A specification of tox environments must be passed to the ``envs``
input. There are a number of other inputs. All of these inputs (except
``submodules``) can also be specified under each tox environment to
overwrite the global value.

In the following example ``test1`` will pass ``--arg-local`` to pytest,
while ``test2`` will pass ``--arg-global`` to pytest,

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     posargs: '--arg-global'
     envs: |
       - linux: test1
         posargs: '--arg-local'
       - linux: test2

envs
^^^^

Array of tox environments to test. Required input.

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - <os>: <toxenv>
       - <os>: <toxenv>

where ``<os>`` is the either ``linux``, ``macos`` or ``windows``, and
``<toxenv>`` is the name of the tox environment to run.

**Note:** ``envs`` is a *string* and must be specified as a literal
block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also be valid
YAML.)

Example:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: pep8
       - linux: py39
       - macos: py38-docs
         name: build_docs
       - windows: py310-conda

The name of the GitHub Actions job can be changed with the ``name``
option as shown above. By default, ``name`` will be the name of the tox
environment.

If the Python version includes a ``t`` suffix, such as ``py313t``, then
a free-threaded Python interpreter will be used.

libraries
^^^^^^^^^

Additional packages to install using apt (only on Linux), brew and brew
cask (only on macOS), and choco (only on Windows).

Global definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     libraries: |
       apt:
         - package1
         - package2
       brew:
         - package3
       brew-cask:
         - package4
       choco:
         - package5

**Note:** ``libraries`` is a *string* and must be specified as a
literal block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also
be valid YAML.)

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: py39
         libraries:
           apt:
             - package1

posargs
^^^^^^^

Positional arguments for the ``{posargs}`` replacement in an underlying
test command within tox. Default is none.

toxdeps
^^^^^^^

Additional tox dependencies. This string is included at the end of the
``pip install`` command when installing tox. Default is none. For example,
to leverage the `uv <https://github.com/astral-sh/uv>`__ package manager you can specify
``toxdeps: tox-uv`` to use the `tox-uv <https://github.com/tox-dev/tox-uv>`__ plugin.

toxargs
^^^^^^^

Positional arguments for tox. Default is none.

pytest
^^^^^^

Whether pytest is run by the tox environment. This determines if
additional pytest positional arguments should be passed to tox. These
arguments are to assist with saving test coverage reports. Default is
``true``.

pytest-results-summary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Whether test results from pytest are shown in the
`$GITHUB_STEP_SUMMARY <https://github.blog/2022-05-09-supercharging-github-actions-with-job-summaries/>`__.
Default is ``false``.

This option has no effect if ``pytest`` is ``false``.

coverage
^^^^^^^^

A space separated list of coverage providers to upload to. Currently
only ``codecov`` is supported. Default is to not upload coverage
reports.

See also, ``CODECOV_TOKEN`` secret.

This option has no effect if ``pytest`` is ``false``.

conda
^^^^^

Whether to test within a conda environment using ``tox-conda``. Options
are ``'auto'`` (default), ``'true'`` and ``'false'``.

If ``'auto'``, conda will be used if the tox environment names contains
“conda”. For example, ``'auto'`` would enable conda for tox environments
named ``py39-conda``, ``conda-test`` or even ``py38-secondary``.

setenv
^^^^^^

A map of environment variables to be available when testing. Default is
none.

Global definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     setenv: |
       VAR1: test
       VAR2: |
         first line
         seconds line
       VAR3: testing

**Note:** ``setenv`` is a *string* and must be specified as a
literal block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also
be valid YAML.)

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: py39
         setenv: |
           VAR1: test
           VAR2: |
             first line
             seconds line
           VAR3: testing

display
^^^^^^^

Whether to setup a headless display. This uses the
``pyvista/setup-headless-display-action@v1`` GitHub Action. Default is
``false``.

cache-path
^^^^^^^^^^

A list of files, directories, and wildcard patterns to cache and
restore. Passed to
https://github.com/actions/cache ``path`` input.
Optional.

In this example, during the ``core_test`` job the ``sample_data`` is
retrieved as usual and cached at the end of the job, however, during the
``detailed_tests`` jobs the ``sample_data`` is restored from the cache:

.. code:: yaml

   jobs:
     core_test:
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         cache-path: sample_data/
         cache-key: sample-${{ github.run_id }}
         envs: |
           - linux: py39
     detailed_tests:
       needs: [core_test]
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         cache-path: sample_data/
         cache-key: sample-${{ github.run_id }}
         envs: |
           - macos: py39
           - windows: py39

In this example, the particular set of ``sample_data`` and
``processed_data`` needed for the job are restored from the cache if the
manifest file has not been modified. As the repository is not checked
out when calling the workflow, we need to find the hash of the files in
a separate job:

.. code:: yaml

   jobs:
     setup:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       outputs:
         data-hash: ${{ steps.data-hash.outputs.hash }}
         compressed-data-hash: ${{ steps.compressed-data-hash.outputs.hash }}
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v3
         - id: data-hash
           run: echo "hash=${{ hashFiles('**/data_urls.json') }}" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
         - id: compressed-data-hash
           run: echo "hash=${{ hashFiles('**/compressed_data_urls.json') }}" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
     tests:
       needs: [setup]
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         cache-path: |
           sample_data/
           processed_data/
         envs: |
           - linux: py39
             cache-key: full-sample-${{ needs.setup.outputs.data-hash }}
           - linux: py39-compressed
             cache-key: compressed-sample-${{ needs.setup.outputs.compressed-data-hash }}

cache-key
^^^^^^^^^

An explicit key for restoring and saving the cache. Passed to
https://github.com/actions/cache ``key`` input.
Optional.

cache-restore-keys
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An ordered list of keys to use for restoring the cache if no cache hit
occurred for key. Passed to
https://github.com/actions/cache
``restore-keys`` input. Optional.

artifact-path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A list of files, directories, and wildcard patterns to upload as
artifacts. Passed to https://github.com/actions/upload-artifact
``path`` input. Optional.

It can be defined globally:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     artifact-path: path/output/bin/

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     artifact-path: |
       path/output/bin/
       path/output/test-results
       !path/**/*.tmp

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - windows: py39
         artifact-path: |
           path/output/bin/
           path/output/test-results
           !path/**/*.tmp

runs-on
^^^^^^^

Choose an alternative image for the runner to use for each OS. By
default, ``linux`` is ``ubuntu-latest``, ``macos`` is ``macos-latest``
and ``windows`` is ``windows-latest``. None, some or all OS images can
be specified, and the global value can be overridden in each
environment.

It can be defined globally:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     runs-on: |
       linux: ubuntu-18.04
       macos: macos-10.15
       windows: windows-2022

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     runs-on: |
       macos: macos-10.15

**Note:** ``runs-on`` is a *string* and must be specified as a
literal block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also
be valid YAML.)

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - windows: py39
         runs-on: windows-2022

default_python
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The version of Python to use if the tox environment name does not start
with ``py(2|3)[0-9]+`` or ``python-version`` is not set for the tox
environment. Default is ``3.x``.

For example, a tox environment ``py39-docs`` will run on Python 3.9,
while a tox environment ``build_docs`` will refer to the value of
``default_python``. The ``default_python`` can also be defined within
``envs``, however, a Python version specified in the tox environment
name takes priority.

To force a particular Python version for a tox environment, the
``python-version`` can be included in the definition of the specific
environment. The value of the ``python-version`` input will override
both the Python version in the tox environment name and any
``default_python`` inputs. See
https://github.com/actions/setup-python
for a full list of supported values for ``python-version``. In this
example, the development version of Python 3.11 and the PyPy
implementation of Python 3.9 will be tested:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: py311
         python-version: '3.11-dev'
       - linux: pypy39
         python-version: 'pypy-3.9'

fail-fast
^^^^^^^^^

Whether to cancel all in-progress jobs if any job fails. Default is
``false``.

timeout-minutes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The maximum number of minutes to let a job run before GitHub
automatically cancels it. Default is ``360``.

submodules
^^^^^^^^^^

Whether to checkout submodules. Default is ``true``.

Secrets
~~~~~~~

CODECOV_TOKEN
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your repository is private, in order to upload to Codecov you need to
set the ``CODECOV_TOKEN`` environment variable or pass it as a secret to
the workflow.

Commit message:

Fix conda bootstrap solve for py314 tox envs

docs/source/tox.rst, after:

.. _oa-ghaw-tox:

Test a Python package using tox
-------------------------------

This workflow makes it easy to map tox environments to GitHub Actions
jobs. To use this template, your repository will need to have a
``tox.ini`` file.

.. code:: yaml

   jobs:
     test:
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         posargs: '-n 4'
         envs: |
           - linux: pep8
             pytest: false
           - macos: py310
           - windows: py39-docs
             libraries:
               choco:
                 - graphviz
         coverage: 'codecov'
       secrets:
         CODECOV_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.CODECOV_TOKEN }}

Inputs
~~~~~~

A specification of tox environments must be passed to the ``envs``
input. There are a number of other inputs. All of these inputs (except
``submodules``) can also be specified under each tox environment to
overwrite the global value.

In the following example ``test1`` will pass ``--arg-local`` to pytest,
while ``test2`` will pass ``--arg-global`` to pytest,

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     posargs: '--arg-global'
     envs: |
       - linux: test1
         posargs: '--arg-local'
       - linux: test2

envs
^^^^

Array of tox environments to test. Required input.

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - <os>: <toxenv>
       - <os>: <toxenv>

where ``<os>`` is the either ``linux``, ``macos`` or ``windows``, and
``<toxenv>`` is the name of the tox environment to run.

**Note:** ``envs`` is a *string* and must be specified as a literal
block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also be valid
YAML.)

Example:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: pep8
       - linux: py39
       - macos: py38-docs
         name: build_docs
       - windows: py310-conda

The name of the GitHub Actions job can be changed with the ``name``
option as shown above. By default, ``name`` will be the name of the tox
environment.

If the Python version includes a ``t`` suffix, such as ``py313t``, then
a free-threaded Python interpreter will be used.

libraries
^^^^^^^^^

Additional packages to install using apt (only on Linux), brew and brew
cask (only on macOS), and choco (only on Windows).

Global definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     libraries: |
       apt:
         - package1
         - package2
       brew:
         - package3
       brew-cask:
         - package4
       choco:
         - package5

**Note:** ``libraries`` is a *string* and must be specified as a
literal block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also
be valid YAML.)

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: py39
         libraries:
           apt:
             - package1

posargs
^^^^^^^

Positional arguments for the ``{posargs}`` replacement in an underlying
test command within tox. Default is none.

toxdeps
^^^^^^^

Additional tox dependencies. This string is included at the end of the
``pip install`` command when installing tox. Default is none. For example,
to leverage the `uv <https://github.com/astral-sh/uv>`__ package manager you can specify
``toxdeps: tox-uv`` to use the `tox-uv <https://github.com/tox-dev/tox-uv>`__ plugin.

toxargs
^^^^^^^

Positional arguments for tox. Default is none.

pytest
^^^^^^

Whether pytest is run by the tox environment. This determines if
additional pytest positional arguments should be passed to tox. These
arguments are to assist with saving test coverage reports. Default is
``true``.

pytest-results-summary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Whether test results from pytest are shown in the
`$GITHUB_STEP_SUMMARY <https://github.blog/2022-05-09-supercharging-github-actions-with-job-summaries/>`__.
Default is ``false``.

This option has no effect if ``pytest`` is ``false``.

coverage
^^^^^^^^

A space separated list of coverage providers to upload to. Currently
only ``codecov`` is supported. Default is to not upload coverage
reports.

See also, ``CODECOV_TOKEN`` secret.

This option has no effect if ``pytest`` is ``false``.

coverage-tool
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Coverage runner used to prepare the XML report when ``coverage`` includes
``codecov``. Options are ``pytest-cov`` (default) and ``coverage.py``.

- ``pytest-cov`` keeps the existing behavior and appends ``--cov-report=xml``
  to pytest arguments.
- ``coverage.py`` skips pytest-cov-specific flags. In this mode, configure
  your tox command to run tests under coverage (for example
  ``coverage run --parallel-mode -m pytest``). The workflow will then run
  ``coverage combine`` and ``coverage xml`` before uploading to Codecov.

conda
^^^^^

Whether to test within a conda environment using ``tox-conda``. Options
are ``'auto'`` (default), ``'true'`` and ``'false'``.

If ``'auto'``, conda will be used if the tox environment names contains
“conda”. For example, ``'auto'`` would enable conda for tox environments
named ``py39-conda``, ``conda-test`` or even ``py38-secondary``.

The bootstrap conda environment used by this workflow is intentionally
independent of the tox environment Python version, so newer tox targets
(for example ``py314``) do not fail solely because the ``conda`` package
itself is unavailable for that Python version.

setenv
^^^^^^

A map of environment variables to be available when testing. Default is
none.

Global definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     setenv: |
       VAR1: test
       VAR2: |
         first line
         seconds line
       VAR3: testing

**Note:** ``setenv`` is a *string* and must be specified as a
literal block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also
be valid YAML.)

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: py39
         setenv: |
           VAR1: test
           VAR2: |
             first line
             seconds line
           VAR3: testing

display
^^^^^^^

Whether to setup a headless display. This uses the
``pyvista/setup-headless-display-action@v1`` GitHub Action. Default is
``false``.

cache-path
^^^^^^^^^^

A list of files, directories, and wildcard patterns to cache and
restore. Passed to
https://github.com/actions/cache ``path`` input.
Optional.

In this example, during the ``core_test`` job the ``sample_data`` is
retrieved as usual and cached at the end of the job, however, during the
``detailed_tests`` jobs the ``sample_data`` is restored from the cache:

.. code:: yaml

   jobs:
     core_test:
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         cache-path: sample_data/
         cache-key: sample-${{ github.run_id }}
         envs: |
           - linux: py39
     detailed_tests:
       needs: [core_test]
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         cache-path: sample_data/
         cache-key: sample-${{ github.run_id }}
         envs: |
           - macos: py39
           - windows: py39

In this example, the particular set of ``sample_data`` and
``processed_data`` needed for the job are restored from the cache if the
manifest file has not been modified. As the repository is not checked
out when calling the workflow, we need to find the hash of the files in
a separate job:

.. code:: yaml

   jobs:
     setup:
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       outputs:
         data-hash: ${{ steps.data-hash.outputs.hash }}
         compressed-data-hash: ${{ steps.compressed-data-hash.outputs.hash }}
       steps:
         - uses: actions/checkout@v3
         - id: data-hash
           run: echo "hash=${{ hashFiles('**/data_urls.json') }}" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
         - id: compressed-data-hash
           run: echo "hash=${{ hashFiles('**/compressed_data_urls.json') }}" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
     tests:
       needs: [setup]
       uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
       with:
         cache-path: |
           sample_data/
           processed_data/
         envs: |
           - linux: py39
             cache-key: full-sample-${{ needs.setup.outputs.data-hash }}
           - linux: py39-compressed
             cache-key: compressed-sample-${{ needs.setup.outputs.compressed-data-hash }}

cache-key
^^^^^^^^^

An explicit key for restoring and saving the cache. Passed to
https://github.com/actions/cache ``key`` input.
Optional.

cache-restore-keys
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An ordered list of keys to use for restoring the cache if no cache hit
occurred for key. Passed to
https://github.com/actions/cache
``restore-keys`` input. Optional.

artifact-path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A list of files, directories, and wildcard patterns to upload as
artifacts. Passed to https://github.com/actions/upload-artifact
``path`` input. Optional.

It can be defined globally:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     artifact-path: path/output/bin/

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     artifact-path: |
       path/output/bin/
       path/output/test-results
       !path/**/*.tmp

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - windows: py39
         artifact-path: |
           path/output/bin/
           path/output/test-results
           !path/**/*.tmp

runs-on
^^^^^^^

Choose an alternative image for the runner to use for each OS. By
default, ``linux`` is ``ubuntu-latest``, ``macos`` is ``macos-latest``
and ``windows`` is ``windows-latest``. None, some or all OS images can
be specified, and the global value can be overridden in each
environment.

It can be defined globally:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     runs-on: |
       linux: ubuntu-18.04
       macos: macos-10.15
       windows: windows-2022

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     runs-on: |
       macos: macos-10.15

**Note:** ``runs-on`` is a *string* and must be specified as a
literal block scalar using the ``|``. (Without the ``|``, it must also
be valid YAML.)

``envs`` definition:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - windows: py39
         runs-on: windows-2022

default_python
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The version of Python to use if the tox environment name does not start
with ``py(2|3)[0-9]+`` or ``python-version`` is not set for the tox
environment. Default is ``3.x``.

For example, a tox environment ``py39-docs`` will run on Python 3.9,
while a tox environment ``build_docs`` will refer to the value of
``default_python``. The ``default_python`` can also be defined within
``envs``, however, a Python version specified in the tox environment
name takes priority.

To force a particular Python version for a tox environment, the
``python-version`` can be included in the definition of the specific
environment. The value of the ``python-version`` input will override
both the Python version in the tox environment name and any
``default_python`` inputs. See
https://github.com/actions/setup-python
for a full list of supported values for ``python-version``. In this
example, the development version of Python 3.11 and the PyPy
implementation of Python 3.9 will be tested:

.. code:: yaml

   uses: OpenAstronomy/github-actions-workflows/.github/workflows/tox.yml@v1
   with:
     envs: |
       - linux: py311
         python-version: '3.11-dev'
       - linux: pypy39
         python-version: 'pypy-3.9'

fail-fast
^^^^^^^^^

Whether to cancel all in-progress jobs if any job fails. Default is
``false``.

timeout-minutes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The maximum number of minutes to let a job run before GitHub
automatically cancels it. Default is ``360``.

submodules
^^^^^^^^^^

Whether to checkout submodules. Default is ``true``.

Secrets
~~~~~~~

CODECOV_TOKEN
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your repository is private, in order to upload to Codecov you need to
set the ``CODECOV_TOKEN`` environment variable or pass it as a secret to
the workflow.
